in places volcanoes have erupted to
build great submarine mountains there
are thought to be around 30,000 such
volcanoes some measured from the sea
floor are taller than Everest
sheer cliff soaring to ground volcanic
Peaks
powerful currents sweep up the mountains
flanks transporting nutrients from deep
water towards the summit's the hard rock
provides excellent Anchorage for
communities of great variety and
stunning color soft corals several
metres across
collect the marine snow as it drifts
past whip cones stretch out into the
current
giant sponges filter nourishment from
the cold water
a richly varied community flourishes
here sustained by the nutrients and
detritus in the icy currents that flow
around the peak
yet it is all blossoming on an extinct
volcano a mile below the reach of the
Sun
you